# etl-project
	Group 8 consists of Robert Norris Conner Mixon, and Matthew Ashe. There were several challenges with the data that led to scrapping one of the files originally planned to be used. Nonetheless, a final database was created joining the scrubbed data from both files. There were three steps to finalizing this project extracting the data, transforming the data, and loading the data into the final database. 
	The extraction portion of the project began with searching through the data available on the Kaggle website. The group landed on a dataset that consisted of three CSV files that were based on a Grocery store in Poland. The data included stocking, sales, statistics, characteristics of products sold from January 2018 to December 2018. 
	The transformation portion of the project varied based off the spreadsheet. One spreadsheet needed the columns to be changed along with manipulation of the data to speak to specific Key Performance Indicators (highest selling items, most frequent customers, etc.). The second spreadsheet was disorganized and hard to read which required the data to be cleaned (about 50%) in the actual CSV file and then the rest of the cleaning was done in Pandas. The final spreadsheet was exceedingly difficult to work with and seemed to have a lot of data that appeared not to be usable. 
	The last portion of the project required loading the data into a final database. SQLite was chosen because of SQLite not being a client-server database engine but the coding being embedded in the program. This would make it easier for the code to be pushed to different parties and the coding would be what it was meant to be and would not be dependent on the local host. 
	This project seemed to be straightforward at first but as issues with the data came to the forefront, things became more difficult to scrub and then marry the data from the different files. In the end, the data did not match up very well but the few cases in which they did share similarities were able to be highlighted. 
